# 📅 Date: 2025-08-11

## 🎯 Goals for Today

- Finish "Jenkins for DevOps:The Basics of Jenkins"

## ✅ What I Did

- Finished chapter 1
-

## 💡 Key Takeaways

-

## 🧠 Questions

- Overview - commonly used tool for CI/CD
- Continous Integration - Procedure to integrate all the code change done by different people. For each commit there will be a test run normally. if any issue in test identify fix and repeat the process. Server based application. multiple plugin to use tools like integration with EKS, ECS etc. simple setup, broad env support. Open source and no licensing needed. Easy to distribute.
- Jenkins for DevOps support - created in 2004. Good at development, testing, Deployment. Jenkins is at the center of Devops. Jenkins architecture - Master -> Slave .. (multiple slaves). Jenkins continuous integration. You commits and jenkins automates.
- Jenkins and CI/CD - Jenkins distributions are supported thru WAR archive, installer package, docker image, homebrew package, source code. Select plugins, build queue, six job types. Plugin category - UI, platforms, administraiton, build management, source code management. Pipelines - Jenkinsfile, Web UI, Scripts. They are declerative and scripted.
- User Docker with Jenkins - There is a some hardware requirement for both docker and jenkins. Browser, Java, windows, Linux. After installation setup admin and you will be then able to use webui to access.
- Ansible Automation - provision and deploy the application. when Jenkins does the automation Ansile will be the tool to deploy the code to production with righ requirement addressed.
- Integration of Jenkins and AWS - Amazon VPC, Traditional deployment, containerized deployment, AWS CodeBuild. Create a key pair, create a security group (mapping to subnet port). Create a virtual machine, configure jenkins
- Integrate git and jenkins - projects and jobs, pipelines, build queue and build executor, plugins, master and agent. create key on github and paste it in jenkins and configure.
- Email integration with Jenkins - pre release problems and post deployment problems. Both these email notification from Jenkins. Default email extension plugin for jenkins or email notified comes form jenkins by default. (what email it is coming form and where it is going to can be configured..). Triggers, recepients, content, system wide configuration, Editable fields, project receipent, default subject, default content. the email plugin can be used from the pipeline, emailext will be the last step in the plugin to notiy the outcome. presend and postsend scripts, triggers, attachments (available in newer version). Usage options - tokens - In subject or content field. project_default_subject, jive formatter - convert the coding of messages.
- Maven with Jenkins - maven can generate documentation. Its own CICD tool that integrates with Jenkins. - Page object model. Describes the build, manages dependency automatically, keeps dependencies and plugins separate, creates doc from source. steps - configure, build, run, setup java path, working with maven in jenkins - POM XML file. creating and executing projects.
- Job-building process in Jenkins - Jenkins jobs are in the center of entire build process. Freestyle project, Maven project. if something breaks, break in dev, not in higher environment. createing job, configuring job. It can be run manually and automatically. Triggering using github hookup, Trigger by polling SCM, Trigger remotely, Trigger via other jobs post-build

## 📌 Next Steps

-
-
