00-progress-log/2025-08-03.md, before:

# 📅 Date: 2025-08-02

## 🎯 Goals for Today

- Finish "Core DevOps Skills: Moving toward DevOps"

## ✅ What I Did

- Finished moving towards devops
- Started with Devops principles and practices

## 💡 Key Takeaways

- Evolution of software - The cloud, VM
  Baas - Backend as a service Faas - Function as a service (Code is the only focus)
- Definition of Devops - Development and Operations joined into one. For implementing devops repository is key (Git).
- Devops Benefits - Overcome Silos. Process are much simplified as both dev and ops team work as one.
- Automated Build System Levaraging - Make command --> Build systems. Makefile is required where the language requires compilation. (Not needed for python and Javascript)
- Challenges - All members should be capable of both development and operation. Hesitation to change is significant. Disproportionate focus on tools. Finding balance between development and operations tools. Implementation of proper test automation stratergy. Ownership of issue

---

- Devops Principles - 3 groups - Stake holder + dev + operations to 2 teams - Stake holder + Devops. With small iterations devops teams creates a feedback loop
- Devops culture - Better People + process + tools. It is highly transparent. Nothing to hide as we are continously improving. High degree of colloboration. All members are equally responsible. Automation and so much automation. Team can be autonomous. Continuous improvement.
- Devops components - Advantage - culture, technical, business- Code they build is automatically build, tested and deployed.
- Life cycle and pipeline management - To convert manual process to automated ones. Different things can be implemented. --> continous integration/delivery, continuos testing, continuous deployment, continuous monitoring, continuous feedback, continuous operations. Always evaluate your pipeline and continuously improve.
- Continuous Development - building tiny piece of code, testing and delivering is much easier than building a highly complex software all at once. It reduces the risk a lot.
- Continuous integration - continuous integration is designed to identify the code change and run the defined proecess on it like build, test and deploy. Branching process and pull request.
- Continuous testing - Start with most critical feature, then extend to all features. This can be done through code coverage. Increased colloboration among the teams.
- Continuous Deployment - Delivery is manual process and Deployment is automated which is the key difference even thought this term is used interchangably. Faster f/b loop introduced. Faster time to market. Developers can focus on development and not with how to deploy. It works only with solid automated tests. Should be aligned to a feature flag. and released as a feature combining all small changes done in regular interval.
- Continuous Monitoring - watch any issue and flag any error. Transperancy, performance issue and user impact identified. Monitor Infrastucture, Application and Network
- Contnuous Feedback - Feedback attained in contiuous manner. Thru structured means and unstructured means. Stuctured is online form or some process established. Unstructured is via sudden phone call, email etc.
- Continuous Operations - Maintain Remote locations, Backups, storage, AI systems. Continous Operations reduces production cost. How to implement --> Additional servers, Introduce cloud, AI messaging. Challenge is queit lot of work, so many org focus on critical items, integration with existing system

## 🧠 Questions

-

## 📌 Next Steps

-
-

Commit message:

End of devops principles and practices

00-progress-log/2025-08-03.md, after:

# 📅 Date: 2025-08-02

## 🎯 Goals for Today

- Finish "Core DevOps Skills: Moving toward DevOps"

## ✅ What I Did

- Finished moving towards devops
- Started with Devops principles and practices

## 💡 Key Takeaways

- Evolution of software - The cloud, VM
  Baas - Backend as a service Faas - Function as a service (Code is the only focus)
- Definition of Devops - Development and Operations joined into one. For implementing devops repository is key (Git).
- Devops Benefits - Overcome Silos. Process are much simplified as both dev and ops team work as one.
- Automated Build System Levaraging - Make command --> Build systems. Makefile is required where the language requires compilation. (Not needed for python and Javascript)
- Challenges - All members should be capable of both development and operation. Hesitation to change is significant. Disproportionate focus on tools. Finding balance between development and operations tools. Implementation of proper test automation stratergy. Ownership of issue

---

- Devops Principles - 3 groups - Stake holder + dev + operations to 2 teams - Stake holder + Devops. With small iterations devops teams creates a feedback loop
- Devops culture - Better People + process + tools. It is highly transparent. Nothing to hide as we are continously improving. High degree of colloboration. All members are equally responsible. Automation and so much automation. Team can be autonomous. Continuous improvement.
- Devops components - Advantage - culture, technical, business- Code they build is automatically build, tested and deployed.
- Life cycle and pipeline management - To convert manual process to automated ones. Different things can be implemented. --> continous integration/delivery, continuos testing, continuous deployment, continuous monitoring, continuous feedback, continuous operations. Always evaluate your pipeline and continuously improve.
- Continuous Development - building tiny piece of code, testing and delivering is much easier than building a highly complex software all at once. It reduces the risk a lot.
- Continuous integration - continuous integration is designed to identify the code change and run the defined proecess on it like build, test and deploy. Branching process and pull request.
- Continuous testing - Start with most critical feature, then extend to all features. This can be done through code coverage. Increased colloboration among the teams.
- Continuous Deployment - Delivery is manual process and Deployment is automated which is the key difference even thought this term is used interchangably. Faster f/b loop introduced. Faster time to market. Developers can focus on development and not with how to deploy. It works only with solid automated tests. Should be aligned to a feature flag. and released as a feature combining all small changes done in regular interval.
- Continuous Monitoring - watch any issue and flag any error. Transperancy, performance issue and user impact identified. Monitor Infrastucture, Application and Network
- Contnuous Feedback - Feedback attained in contiuous manner. Thru structured means and unstructured means. Stuctured is online form or some process established. Unstructured is via sudden phone call, email etc.
- Continuous Operations - Maintain Remote locations, Backups, storage, AI systems. Continous Operations reduces production cost. How to implement --> Additional servers, Introduce cloud, AI messaging. Challenge is queit lot of work, so many org focus on critical items, integration with existing system
- Configuration Management - Systems are in predictable state. Automation, management, maintainenance. Define system state, utilize platform, scalability. Configuration management prevents undocumented changes.
- Apply infrastucture as code in devops - Address enviroment drift, well documented, establishes idempotence (restore the state to valid one)
- Apply content-as-code in devops - Use Git software for this. Update the content outside delivery cycle. Sync content development with existing CI/CD cycle. Enable content creators
- Devops-as-Code - Can have pipelin flows, infra configuration, deployment configuration. It mainly uses structured yaml files. Stage --> job (runs with in a stage) --> Actions (low level task within a job)
- Maturing into Devops - It's a culture shift which can be observed by everyone. Everyone works towards same goal. Lot of automation. Testing is automated and continuous.

## 🧠 Questions

-

## 📌 Next Steps

-
-
