# 📅 Date: 2025-08-14

## 🎯 Goals for Today

- Finish "Ansible for DevOps:Practical use of Ansible"

## ✅ What I Did

- Started Learning Ansible

## 💡 Key Takeaways

- Course Overview -
- Installing Ansible - In Mac install view homebrew. ansible --version for knowing the version.
- Configure Ansible - ansible -config. To find the commands 'ansible -config init' config file will maintained in etc directory. -> ansible.cfg. using enviornment variable ANSIBLE_INVENTORY
- Ansible Inventory - Multiple hosts and inventories. two format ini and yaml. two default group - All and ungrouped. What, where and when -> Group logically, set variables, group variables. . User variable syntax, group devices by platform, verify inventories.
- Creating inventories - brew install hudochenkov/sshpass/sshpass
- Writing playbook - sudo ansible-playbook test.yaml . Multiple things can be done. Bare mininum we saw is to bring up apache server.
- Running Commands and Playbooks - sample command - sudo ansible all -a "neofetch"
- Trouble shooting playbooks - Start by looking at flag options. You will be able to point specific task from local machine and run from that. Step mode .. it will run the playbook step by step for each task. C -> continue to resume running all task.
- Working with Variables - define variable by giving {{ sample_variable }} . using check from local we can check if there is any failure.
- using CLI -
- Debugging -
- Working with Ansible plugins - popular ones are aws and gcp.
- Ansible Best practices - Embrace simplicity, version control, CLI customisation. Always name task (easier to identify and debug when needed). Separate production and staging enviornments.

## 🧠 Questions

-
-

## 📌 Next Steps

-
-
