# 📅 Date: 2025-08-03

## 🎯 Goals for Today

- Finish "Core DevOps Skills: Moving toward DevOps"

## ✅ What I Did

- Finished moving towards devops
- Started with Devops principles and practices
- Finished Devops principles and practices
- Started Aigle and Devops

## 💡 Key Takeaways

- Evolution of software - The cloud, VM
  Baas - Backend as a service Faas - Function as a service (Code is the only focus)
- Definition of Devops - Development and Operations joined into one. For implementing devops repository is key (Git).
- Devops Benefits - Overcome Silos. Process are much simplified as both dev and ops team work as one.
- Automated Build System Levaraging - Make command --> Build systems. Makefile is required where the language requires compilation. (Not needed for python and Javascript)
- Challenges - All members should be capable of both development and operation. Hesitation to change is significant. Disproportionate focus on tools. Finding balance between development and operations tools. Implementation of proper test automation stratergy. Ownership of issue

---

- Devops Principles - 3 groups - Stake holder + dev + operations to 2 teams - Stake holder + Devops. With small iterations devops teams creates a feedback loop
- Devops culture - Better People + process + tools. It is highly transparent. Nothing to hide as we are continously improving. High degree of colloboration. All members are equally responsible. Automation and so much automation. Team can be autonomous. Continuous improvement.
- Devops components - Advantage - culture, technical, business- Code they build is automatically build, tested and deployed.
- Life cycle and pipeline management - To convert manual process to automated ones. Different things can be implemented. --> continous integration/delivery, continuos testing, continuous deployment, continuous monitoring, continuous feedback, continuous operations. Always evaluate your pipeline and continuously improve.
- Continuous Development - building tiny piece of code, testing and delivering is much easier than building a highly complex software all at once. It reduces the risk a lot.
- Continuous integration - continuous integration is designed to identify the code change and run the defined proecess on it like build, test and deploy. Branching process and pull request.
- Continuous testing - Start with most critical feature, then extend to all features. This can be done through code coverage. Increased colloboration among the teams.
- Continuous Deployment - Delivery is manual process and Deployment is automated which is the key difference even thought this term is used interchangably. Faster f/b loop introduced. Faster time to market. Developers can focus on development and not with how to deploy. It works only with solid automated tests. Should be aligned to a feature flag. and released as a feature combining all small changes done in regular interval.
- Continuous Monitoring - watch any issue and flag any error. Transperancy, performance issue and user impact identified. Monitor Infrastucture, Application and Network
- Contnuous Feedback - Feedback attained in contiuous manner. Thru structured means and unstructured means. Stuctured is online form or some process established. Unstructured is via sudden phone call, email etc.
- Continuous Operations - Maintain Remote locations, Backups, storage, AI systems. Continous Operations reduces production cost. How to implement --> Additional servers, Introduce cloud, AI messaging. Challenge is queit lot of work, so many org focus on critical items, integration with existing system
- Configuration Management - Systems are in predictable state. Automation, management, maintainenance. Define system state, utilize platform, scalability. Configuration management prevents undocumented changes.
- Apply infrastucture as code in devops - Address enviroment drift, well documented, establishes idempotence (restore the state to valid one)
- Apply content-as-code in devops - Use Git software for this. Update the content outside delivery cycle. Sync content development with existing CI/CD cycle. Enable content creators
- Devops-as-Code - Can have pipelin flows, infra configuration, deployment configuration. It mainly uses structured yaml files. Stage --> job (runs with in a stage) --> Actions (low level task within a job)
- Maturing into Devops - It's a culture shift which can be observed by everyone. Everyone works towards same goal. Lot of automation. Testing is automated and continuous.

---

- Agile Development pracices - Increment development and Continuous evaluation. Implement continuous improvement along with best agile approach like scrum or Kanban etc. Frameworks - Lean, Scrum, Extreme Programming, Kanban.
- Devops Vs Agile Methodologies - Devops is a colloborative culture and Agile is a set of methodologies both work towards predictability.
- Process of devops and agile - Focus on continuous devliery aspect. Set time intervals for delivery and feedback loop.
- Devops vs Agile Teams - Agile teams are colocated. Entirely dedicated to single project. Agile pushes for a team responsibility. 3 roles - PO, Scrum master, development team (included SM but not PO). Devops team works on number of products at the same time. Strong technical leadership. Each organisation has different style of creating devops team. Devops team will have adaptable skillset to take on something new.
- Importance of testing - Majority of bug happens during coding. Shift left testing. Agile and devops rounds of testing done before development is fully complete. Shift right testing is adding a continuous testing process after it goes into production.
- Goals and key target areas - Agile focus on working software over documentation. Also it focus on colloboration over contract negotiations. Create a s/w get the f/b from customer and iterate the process until customers full requirement is met with small iterations. Goal of devops - more deployment frequency, reduced failure rate, quicker time to market. shrink MTTR - Mean time to recovery basically time taken for resolving an issue after detection.
- Devops vs Agile requirements - Business requirements, Stakeholder req, solution req, transitional req (migration to cloud). Functional and non functional requirement. Categorise requirements into buckets - Role based, Fuctional and non functional.
- The Synergy b/w devops and agile - Agile focus on iterative development. F/b and colloboration. Devops purpose is combine dev and operation. Focus on CI/CD. Agile wants everything from process to development to continously improve. First time agile don't have to be setup perfectly as it focus on continously improving. Implement continous monitoring and f/b.

## 🧠 Questions

-

## 📌 Next Steps

-
-
