# 📅 Date: 2025-08-06

## 🎯 Goals for Today

- Continue and Finish "Core DevOps Skills: Continuous Principles"

## ✅ What I Did

- Finished "Core Devops sills:Continous Principles"
- Started with case studies

## 💡 Key Takeaways

- Devops pipelines - Automated workflows. Used for Build, test and deploy. First component of pipeline is continuous integration and second section is continuous delivery, third component is continous deployment. Another component is continous feedback. Continuous testing - Ability to automatically validate before releasing to prod and in some case after release. Continous Monitoring, Continuous operations.
- Devops Pipeline Automation - Development, Testing, Production, Monitoring. Common use case is in Infrastructure provisioning, Application deployment and configuration management. Gitops - workflow manager.
- Operational Efficiency with CI/CD - Pipeline divided into stages. CI/CD gives reliable and repetable process. Compiling and Testing. Product artifacts - Packaged software, Automated deployment. Stages Automated invocation - pipeline best run when triggered automatically, Code checkout, Code compilation. Package should give you every detail for the software. Pipeline credentials should always be protected in vaults or secrets.
- Source Stage - Deals with actual source code. When code gets triggered into main normally pipeline gets triggered, this can be customised based on project need. polling - condition checked, webhook - when webhook is trigerred pipeline gets executed. Ideally one pipeline per repository.
- Build Stage - Kicks off after source stage. Evaluate source code and convert it to actual software. Main thing happens in build stage is compilation. All dependencies download and binary created. Linting - Find problem in code and fail the pipeline, Analysis of the code.
- Test Stage - Unit test, regression test, integration test, acceptance test. Test should be fully automated, if any manual intervention, it invalidates all the testing. In the world of devops test cases are written by devops and not by QA team.
- Deploy stage - build + test stage produces artifacts. These two stages combines is the CI stage. Continous delivery will have manual intervention like approval. Continous deployment is fully automated. If any stage fails before deployment software shouldn't be deployed.
- Validation stage - Code is of highest quality as part of the pipeline. Validation tool should provide details of all the software and issue. Tools - Code analyzers . Markers, Overall health . goal of validation is reducing risk. Test type, criteria, scope, Framework.
- Monitor stage - Normally final stage in the pipelie. Use tool within CI/CD pipeline. Which tool to use depends. Monitoring should be continuous. Notification should be part of minitoring. Infrastructure monitoring, Application monitoring and Network monitoring. e.g Promontheus, Sensu Go, Nagios.
- Continuous Improvement - Continous improvement is a culture. Retrospective used to get feedback with in team and improve continously. Process improvement and technical improvement. Process improvement by producto owner/scrum master.
- Containers and software development - Container, contains all necessary piece for the software/API. Container contains - Application code, Dependencies and resources. Advantage - portability, separation of responsibility, Isolation. Containers are lightweight. container use a fraction of memory compared to VM. challenges - concurrent development not possible. team should be well versed with architecture and config management, application security (better)
- containerization in CI/CD pipelines - cloud computing. agile development, resource flexibility. Easy to deploy container. Easier to get f/b. Automate your builds, bundle up and use deployment as package. Establish a baseline. Clone a production environment. Good way of automating the software, scale easily, choose tools carefully - Kubernetes, docker etc
- Site reliability engineering - Apply team expertise, solve problems, make sure the operation is reliable, resiliency, gain system visibility. Better reliability, improved efficiency, continous improvement culture, customer satisfaction. Devops and SRE is not same but are highly complementary. SRE cares about end user and not about the feature as such.

---

-

## 🧠 Questions

-

## 📌 Next Steps

-
-
