# 📅 Date: 2025-08-06

## 🎯 Goals for Today

- Finish "Working with containers: Introduction to Docker"

## ✅ What I Did

- Completed and finished the test.
- got a high level understanding. only theory and not practical

## 💡 Key Takeaways

- Course overview - Different services provided by docker
- Docker Overview - Is an open platform, Isolates application from OS, accelerates devlopment time. Fast to deploy and fast to run. Package and run your applicaiton in a server. You can use docker to run mulitple containers. Lightweight and shareable. Docker facilitates multiple releases a week. For executing multiple workloads. For deployment and scaling. Efficiency, speed and portability.
- Docker workflow - First, Write and test your application. Second, Build a container image. 3. Push images to a server. 4. Start your application finally maintain the application. you can develop in IDE or directly run the container and edit it there. Build an artifact, write a dockerfile, you can also use tools. once image is build push. Podman or system D to start the application.
- How to provision docker resources - Multiple options to run the 'docker run' command.
  syntax - docker run [OPTIONS] IMAGE[:TAG|@DIGEST][COMMAND] {ARG...}
  only person running the command can set the options command -d for detach --name to specify name. the command in the sytax is optional .. only docker run is basic
  docker stop command -t , docker kill (both with stop .. stop is graceful and kill is complete shutdown)
  docker ps using -a and -f to list the containers
  docker rm is for removing one or more docker containers simultaneously
- Elements of Docker Image - Diff b/w docker container and docker image. Docker container is a virtualised environment created on top of image. image gets created when containerised applicaiton is started. Base image , parent image. Base image is from scratch, from ubuntu or from something is parent image.
- Docker files - Text document, contains commands to assemble image. build context is used because image will not be running in the same machine. it supports git repository urls. Build is ran by docker demon itself. workdir - from where the argument following command will run.
- Docker build commands - Builds docker image. docker tag can be V1/V2 etc .. docker login is used to login to a docker registry.
- How to manage docker resources - docker run is used to run a container. combining create and start command. docker stop is used to stop. docker ps command to show all the containers. -a is for all -f is to filter. docker ls to list .. both ls and ps are interchangable .. ls is newer. docker rmi is to remove the image (not containers), to remove from host node
- docker use cases - microservice - spin up container each of the specific container. Freedom to run all your applications in the environment we specify. applicaiton isolation, developer productivity. Cloud application - use much easier in cloud environment and cost control.
- course summary - overview of docker and its usefulness, workflow.

## 🧠 Questions

-

## 📌 Next Steps

-
-
