# 📅 Date: 2025-08-02

## 🎯 Goals for Today

- Start "Core DevOps Skills: Moving toward DevOps"

## ✅ What I Did

- Watched 45 minutes of the course

## 💡 Key Takeaways

- Waterfall model - It carries significant risk , not advised for complex, lengthy projects, process to long at beginning to plan, requirements cannot change
- Iterative development model - Begins with minimal requirement and get into development quicker. Get product out quickly. Design + build incrementally and improve. Supports changes to requirement. Good for large and complex project. High risk is handled during beginning of the project so that with each iteration it becomes less risky. It is more complex to manage than waterfall
- Spiral development model - Best of both waterfall and iterative model. Modrate to high-risk projects. Can have some of the requirements and get started. each iteration is a mini waterfall project in spiral. Complex to manage.
- V-model - V shaped execution. It is extension of waterfall model. Verification and validation model. Verification of Business requirement, system design, architecture design, module design, coding by writing test cases. Second side is validation - unit testing, integration testing, system testing, integration testing. It is used for project with well-defined requirement, stable product definition, stable technology.
- Bing Bang Development model - Cowboy stratergy. Get requirement and develop. Developers get license to do anything to complete. It is faster than any other model. something like 1 time use and 1 day development
- Agile Development - Fully flexibile.

## 🧠 Questions

-

## 📌 Next Steps

-
-
